April 2002 

Minute of Support for Gay, Lesbian & Transgendered Seekers:

Friends Meeting welcomes all seekers of God's Truth and Will. We recognize that of God in each person and cherish each person who joins our faith community. Diversity in experience and orientation enriches and strengthens us. We extend the hand of friendship to all those who desire to share in our worship. We are united as a faith community in welcoming individual seekers, whether heterosexual, homosexual or transgender. We will celebrate marriage for all couples after the manner of Friends if we find them clear in their commitment to be faithful to each other.

Concord Meeting has studied and prayed over this issue for a long time. Many have watched in gratitude as other meetings in the Quarter and the Yearly meeting struggled with this and concluded that they must support same gender relationships as lovingly and tenderly as those between a man and a woman. Others have struggled to understand how this could accord with their own understanding of scripture and the leadings of the Holy Spirit. While deeply concerned about the divisions that this issue is causing in the world-wide body of the Society of Friends, Concord Meeting feels drawn by the Spirit to move forward.

We have come to this leading through study of Scripture and Quaker writings as well as through spiritual experiences of many among us. Friends have never accepted the primacy of the written word over religious experience and, while the weight of tradition cannot be ignored, it cannot rule. Profound experiences of divine love moved early Friends to oppose slavery and the subjugation of women to their husbands, even though these practices were supported by Scripture and ancient tradition. This same divine love shared with our gay, lesbian and transgendered Friends moves us to declare this Truth.

We are in agreement that sexuality is a gift from God that should not be used for exploitation. We acknowledge that, for many, homosexuality is an unacceptable perversion. But our experience tells us otherwise. We have watched our brothers and sisters and children and ourselves blossom into fruitful lives only after accepting that being gay, lesbian or transgendered is the way some of us were created. We cannot cut these precious members of our congregation out of our hearts. We are concerned about the agonies caused to them, as they are unable to change their sexual attraction or gender identity. The lack of acceptance by our beloved Society, as well as by the society at large, contributes to their pain. This bias has caused some to pretend to be who they are not and caused immense pain and grief for themselves and others. Friends can no longer remain silent on this issue.

We recognize and lament that the wider society does not accord our sisters and brothers this same acceptance. We pray that we can find ways to help overcome these prejudices. As we work towards acceptance and celebration of gay, lesbian and transgendered individuals in the wider society, we will continue to pray and labor within the Religious Society of Friends to ensure that our loved ones are welcomed as whole and contributing members in our spiritual communities.
