Statement on Same-Sex Marriage 

Approved by Green Street Monthly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends during their Meeting for Worship for Business on 10/17/04

We, the members of Green Street Monthly Meeting, Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), support the right of gay people to marry and to obtain the same legal rights through marriage as heterosexual couples. Philadelphia Yearly Meeting's Faith and Practice defines marriage in this way: "Marriage is a sacred commitment of two people to love one another in faithful partnership." When two people, regardless of their sexual orientation, find themselves clear to enter into a lifelong commitment to love and care for each other, they should be encouraged to do so. We have observed among ourselves that same-sex marriage strengthens rather than weakens families. The presence and participation of our members who have formed such unions have enriched our community, and we want for them the same benefits under the law that are conferred upon persons in heterosexual marriages.

In 1994, our Meeting asked itself whether it could allow same-sex couples to marry under its care. In 1995, after active and careful deliberation, our Meeting reached unity on the decision that it could and, in fact, was obligated to do so in order to remain true to our Quaker testimonies deriving from the Christian responsibility to love God and one's neighbor.

Then, in the summer of 2002, two men requested permission to marry under the care of our Meeting. As is our practice, we formed a "clearness committee" and entered into a two-month process to determine whether these two persons were confirmed in their commitment to each other and were ready to undertake all that marriage entails. On October 19th, 2002, they married each other in the tradition of Friends in a called Meeting for Worship with their families and friends attending.

In so doing, these two men, like all married couples, agreed to a lifelong commitment of faithfulness, love and care for each other, subordinating their pursuit of individual gratification to the greater good of family well-being. Like other couples marrying under the care of our Meeting, they received the Meeting's blessings and support.

These two men have spoken about how the marriage clarified their relationship for themselves, their two families, their friends and the Meeting. The wedding provided a venue for them to receive the love and support of their families and community, and it also gave each of them something to rely on, the commitment of each man to watch over the other and to remain in the relationship even in the face of adversity.

Our Meeting's care for these two men and for their marriage has given us another opportunity to extend and share in the acceptance and love that Jesus Christ demonstrated for every person.

Fortunately, these two members of our Meeting can experience the spiritual and emotional aspects of marriage in their relationship to each other, their extended family and their community. They can also replicate several of the contractual arrangements of legal marriage through the use of wills, powers of attorney and so on. However, they still cannot benefit from the hundreds of accommodations made by the various levels of government to married couples. One very material example is that they cannot share in the use of each other's Social Security benefits, despite paying into the system at the same rates as other citizens. They are therefore left with greater uncertainty than other married couples about the circumstances that would arise if one partner died or became disabled.

The exclusion of the gay members of our community from fair treatment under the law demeans them and condemns them to a lesser status relative to our heterosexual members. For our religious society, which values equality as one of its basic testimonies, this condition is intolerable. We look to Jesus as our teacher and guide, and in His work we find the invitation to form an inclusive kingdom of God infused with God's love for all of His creation as well as the advice to love God and our neighbor.

The legal ostracism of gay people furthermore threatens the very ordinary, very established, very sustaining spiritual fellowship of the Green Street Friends Meeting and its Friends school. In our 200-year-old community, we unite to seek the will of God, while encouraging each other's individual spiritual journeys. Each of our members, whether gay or straight, coupled or single, contributes to the well being of every other member as well as to the soundness of the Society of Friends as a whole. Every individual is valued and respected. None is expendable, and none deserves to be deprived of the rights granted others. We cannot assent to a cultural standard that has no meaning in the day-to-day functioning of our sound community and that causes some of our members to suffer needlessly, thereby reducing the well being of us all.

To those who have questions about same sex marriage and how it affects a community, we would invite them to visit with us and see for themselves that the Kingdom of God on earth has a modest outpost in our community.
