October 18, 1992

Minute 83. Ministry and Counsel presented a minute on same-gender relationships for consideration by the Meeting. The Meeting agreed at the outset of the discussion that it supported the basic thrust of the minute. The final version approved by the Meeting is:

Background: During the winter and spring of 1991-92, Ministry and Counsel initiated and supported a committee to organize discussions on the Meeting's spiritual relationship to gay men, lesbians, and bi-sexuals. Five informational or worship sharing sessions attended by 25 to more than 30 were held at the rise of Meeting. These offered the Meeting community a rich opportunity to explore the issues and problems faced by individuals living in a homophobic society. As a result of this exploratory process we have come to understand that our concern should be for the quality of the relationship rather than for the sexual orientation of the partners. The Meeting commits itself to promoting acceptance, dignity and respect for people of same-sex orientation. Any loving relationship that honors the sacredness of each partner's life and spirit should be embraced by the Meeting. We affirm that we should support all individuals in such relationships including, but not limited to, an offering of the benefits of a public celebration of mutual commitment. It is the privilege of the couple to call their union by any name they choose. The process for publicly recognizing this union shall follow the customary procedures as outlined in Faith and Practice.

June 2002

Members of Storrs Friends Meeting believe that the legal rights and obligations of marriage should be available to all adult couples regardless of gender identity. We have come to understand that our concern should be for the quality of a relationship rather than for the sexual orientation of the partners. Over the past decade our own spiritual community has been enriched by celebrations of same-sex marriage and commitment, as well as by full participation of same-sex couples and their families in our community. We believe that our government should assure equal rights for all couples, including same-gender couples. Based on the Society of Friends' long-standing testimony on equality, we recommit ourselves to witness to the need for civil equality for all people.
